Although the Temperance cause has been in progress for near twenty years, it is apparent to all, that it is, just now, being crowned with a 
degree of success, hitherto unparalleled. The list of its friends is daily swelled by the additions of fifties, of hundreds, and of thousands. The cause itself seems suddenly transformed 
from a cold abstract theory, to a living, breathing, active, and powerful chieftain, going forth "conquering and to conquer." The citadels of 
his great adversary are daily being stormed and dismantled; his temple and his altars, where the rites of his idolatrous worship have long been 
performed, and where human sacrifices have long been wont to be made, are daily desecrated and deserted. The trump of the conqueror's fame is 
sounding from hill to hill, from sea to sea, and from land to land, and calling millions to his standard at a blast.

For this new and splendid success, we heartily rejoice. That that success is so much greater now than heretofore, is doubtless owing to rational 
causes; and if we would have it continue, we shall do well to inquire what those causes are. The warfare heretofore waged against the demon 
Intemperance, has, somehow or other, been erroneous. Either the champions engaged, or the tactics they adopted have not been the most proper. 
These champions for the most part have been Preachers, Lawyers, and hired agents. Between these and the mass of mankind, there is a want of 
approachability, if the term be admissible, partially, at least, fatal to their success. They are supposed to have no sympathy of feeling or 
interest, with those very persons whom it is their object to convince and persuade.

And again, it is so common and so easy to ascribe motives to men of these classes, other than those they profess to act upon. The preacher, it 
is said, advocates temperance because he is a fanatic, and desires a union of the Church and State; the lawyer, from his pride and vanity of 
hearing himself speak; and the hired agent, for his salary. But when one, who has long been known as a victim of intemperance bursts the fetters 
that have bound him, and appears before his neighbors "clothed, and in his right mind," a redeemed specimen of long-lost humanity, and stands up 
with tears of joy trembling in his eyes, to tell of the miseries once endured, now to be endured no more forever; of his once naked and starving 
children, now clad and fed comfortably; of a wife long weighed down with woe, weeping, and a broken heart, now restored to health, happiness, 
and a renewed affection; and how easily it is all done, once it is resolved to be done; how simple his language, there is a logic, and an 
eloquence in it, that few, with human feelings, can resist. 